
DESCRIPTION:
===================================================================

TaxonoPhy is used to make a statistical assingment of an unknown DNA
sequence to taxa represented by sequences in GenBank. Each assignment
is associated with a posterior probility that serve as a confidence in
the assignment.


REQUIREMENTS:
===================================================================

TaxoniPhy needs the Python interpreter to run: If you are running on
OSX you have it installed. Otherwise it is easlily downloaded and
installed from: http://www.activestate.com/products/activepython.

Clustalw2 is used to make alignments of homologues. This is easily
downloaded and installed from
ftp://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/software/clustalw2/

The first time you run TaxoniPhy it will check if you have Netblast on
your system. If not it will download and install it for you.


INSTALATION:
===================================================================

If you have administrator privileges on your machine you type:

python setup.py install

If you do not have administrator privileges or just want to install in
some non-default directory you make or have a directory
/lib/python2.4/site-packages (if you use python 2.4) that is in your
python path. Then you just type:

python setup.py install --prefix=<some_dir>


FIREWALL SETTINGS:
===================================================================

TaxonoPhy relies on netblast to access genbank. If you are behind a
firewall you may need to configure your firewass settings. The
following is copied from the netblast documentation.

The setup for NCBI network clients has been greatly simplified. Users,
not behind a firewall, can use the program after the extraction
above. For those users behind a firewall, and already use Sequin or
Entrez, or if your system administrator has already performed the
setup, they should also be able to start performing searches after
installation.

If the above are not the case, users will need to make sure that the
following IP address/port combinations are open in the firewall
configuration.

IP Address	Port Number
130.14.29.112	5861
130.14.29.112	5862
130.14.29.112	5863

Note: Please refer to 'firewall.html' included in the netblast package
for details.

In addition to this, users will need to create an .ncbirc file to
instruct blastcl3 how to make the connection to NCBI. This file should
contain the information listed below and be placed in the home
directory. For PC running Windows, the file is named ncbi.ini which
should be placed under the windows directory.

[NCBI]
DATA=/home/johndoe/netblast-#.#.#/data
[CONN]
FIREWALL=TRUE
[NET_SERV]
SRV_CONN_MODE=SERVICE

Note: Replace the path to data directory with the path specific to
your installation.

We may encounter problems while using blastcl3. The most common cause
for this problem is firewall configuration related. A representative
error message generally would contain "[CONN_Open] Cannot open
connection", "<<< Re-establishing NETBLAST Service >>>", or something
in that order.

Adding the following two lines in the .ncbirc (or ncbi.ini) file will
increase the timeout setting and generate more informative messages
that are useful in debugging the problem:

TIMEOUT=300
DEBUG_PRINTOUT=DATA

Search related errors from NCBI BLAST server typically are accompanied
by RID for the relevant searches. Those RIDs should be saved and sent
to NCBI blast-help@ncbi.nlm.nih.gov for trouble shooting purposes.





